a  video at provided a survey of the new literature that's been emerging in the last
few  decades
studying  the failures of china's greatly forward
those  failures are now casually referred to as
a  great famine or as in the title of franco's block
maugre
a  natural question arise in people's minds of to what extent
the  failure of the great leap forward
the  deaths of tens of millions of people
the  brutal repression of any form of
can  be attributed to
mosada
the  country's take etoria leader of the
some  people ask the question in earnest
matter  of research a matter of historical concern many people of course are asking
the  question because they would like to make excuses that would exclude mouth from
blame  that would shift the blame to lower levels of the government
or  to other officials so that machineman a national hero for china
on  the other hand there's also a human tendency
to  want to take a complex mountain of facts
and  reduce it
a  few short paragraphs
few  short sentences
there's  a natural tendency to look for a smoking gun quotation that will tell us
what  maw did and why
in  my earlier video
i  mentioned many new books some of which just study a single village some which study
a  whole province and some which study the whole country
during  this period of china aster
two  of the most famous and successful authors are young she and frank too
in  that earlier video i very briefly alluded to the fact that actually the two have had
some  dispute
and  those disputes were not entirely polite
or  academic
one  of the disputes began with frank to code providing an interview to a magazine called
igalwa
and  you sang very rapidly replied
covered  some general theoretical question
it  covered for example the question of to what extent we blame now
as  an individual for being in executive command and control or to what extent
we  blame
stem  and other more nebulous general fact
after  addressing a number of different criticisms from dakota
young  pointed out the following example in
an  i will have to point out one piece of information to cotanto used to prove mosotones
bad
is  not reliable
doctor  quotes a assaying it is better to let half the people die
the  other half can eat their fill
based  on my many years of research
on  the great famine and mousedom i am positive that now did not say such work
to  digress briefly
keep  in mind the young is not saying this in order to make excuses for not the fomentation
may  be somewhat less poetic in english that it was in its original chinese
you'll  see the yang maintains a certain type of sophisticated ambivalence
on  the extent to which moisel became a victim of the system
that  he had himself created
and  totally enforced upon others
quote
it  was like a casting mold
regardless  of what kind of person went into the totalitarian system all came not as conjoined
twin
other  despots slave depending on their position respected to those above or below
them
mosada  was the creator of this mould and he himself was to some extent
same
now  own actions were to assert extent also beyond his control
no  one had the power to resist such a
coming  back to the quotation disputed by these two scholars
tooter  has encouraged the public to imagine
this  one is a direct comment on the conditions of famine
during  the period of the greatly forward and she
that  it's better to let half of the people die so the other half can eat their fill well
the  original quotation in its original contact
although  it's important
does  not have this
smoking  gun quality
here's  a different attempt to translate it turning out to be more like if all are unable to eat their
fill  then all will do
it  is better for half to die so that half the people can eat their fill
now  that may still give you a chill or make the hairs on the back your head
stand
but  the reality is that it wasn't offered as a direct comment on famine or in many
other  aspects of the great leap forward it was actually comment on allocating resources
for  how different types of industrial projects were managed
in  that having a list of projects was better than having a list of more than a thousand of the
gleaner
now  the comment may still be in very bad taste it may look bad and retrospect
definitely  not the smoking gun quotation that i think frank doctor was looking for
and  that frank corte's readers believed they had
do  we need a smoking gun quotation
there's  plenty of evidence of exactly what happened
where  it happened
one
and  although the communist party obviously provides us many of the great
villains  in this period
we  also have that information because of the heroism of people within the communist
party
work  very hard to make sure that a record of what really did happen
was  passed down to the current general
this  was a period of history
in  which daring to complain verbally
that  you were starving
could  be a death penalty of fence and in which example after example visus
writing  an anonymous letter from your village in sending to the
complaining  that people are starving to
be  a death penalty of
for  the most minor exercises of freedom of
simply  to beg for help
was  enough to have you brutally beaten
imprison
killed  nevertheless most people are not looking for a mountain effect
they're  looking for a short concise saying
the  people in charge that will come up what the attitude was
while  this history unfold
next  quotation in my opinion is much closer to a real smoking gun revelation
of  what moontide
it  provides us with some insight into how he viewed himself in history while
this  disaster was
while  the body count was
at  a communist party conference on may eighth nineteen fifty
mal  promoted emulating
emperor  chin she whom
quote  advocated wiping out those who use history
to  criticize the
when  marshalled in banerjee
on  burned books and burn scholars
no  responded
what  was this she wrong he only buried four hundred and sixty scholars but we
buried  forty six thousand
during  the suppression of counter revolution
we  kill some revolutionary intellectuals
i  discussed this with advocates of democracy
you  call us since you long as an insult
but  we surpassed in she won
people  curses as dictators like gins
we  must categorically accept this
as  factually
although  the significance of this quotation may not be immediately apparent
to  a western reader unfamiliar with the history of
is  really much more of a smoking gun than the quotation provided by frantic
one  is an infamous
figure  in the history of
example
his  burning books
killing  scholars and depriving people of the right to study his
even  studying history
a  threat to the government's power
that's  regarded as one of the leaders of chinese
the  chinese concept of their own culture and their own civilization
is  very heavily built on the written word and the recording of written
this  was the one emperor who deprives people of the right to own and read
this  period only it was illegal for an individual to own
or  possess a book
huge  numbers of books were burned and as mentioned
some  numbers of people were also killed
we  have the records of this happened and we have the records of when his law banning books
was  repealed under the next dinner
in  this quotation now was revealing that near the beginning of the great leap
forward  he is aware that his critics are comparing him
to  one of the most brutal and despised dictators in the history of civilization
and  that the comparison is partly being made specifically it is anti intellectualism
in  his refusal to allow any inch of freedom of
in  his burning of books in his killing of intellectuals and so on
and  moles response to this
to  embrace the infamy of that accusation
and  say
people  curse us as dictators like chinchilla
most  categorically accept his
actually
most  turn their
he